A dataset is contained within a specific project. 
Datasets are top-level containers that are used to organize and control access to your tables and views. 
A table or view must belong to a dataset, 
so you need to create at least one dataset before loading data into BigQuery.

limitations:
You can set the geographic location at creation time only. 
After a dataset has been created, the location becomes immutable 
All tables referenced in a query must be stored in datasets in the same location.
When copying a table, the datasets containing the source table and destination table must reside in the same location.
You cannot move a dataset from one location to another, but you can manually move (recreate) a dataset. 

Dataset pricing

You are not charged for creating, updating, or deleting a dataset.

There are two types of locations:

    A regional location
    A multi-regional location contains at least two geographic places. 


BigQuery determines the location to run the job based on the datasets <referenced in the request>. 

When you use the command-line tool, supply the --location global flag and set the value to your location.

When you query data in an external data source such as Cloud Storage, the data you're querying must be in the same location as your BigQuery dataset.

to create a dataset, permissions:
    bigquery.dataEditor
    bigquery.dataOwner
    bigquery.user
    bigquery.admin

Copying datasets

You can copy a dataset within a region or from one region to another, without extracting, moving, and reloading data into BigQuery. 

Data type limitations

    Copying views is not supported.
    Copying external tables is not supported.

The source dataset size maximum is 20,000 tables in it.

Table limitations

    Copying partitioned tables is currently supported. However, appending data to a partitioned table is not supported.

Currently, you cannot grant permissions on tables, views, columns, or rows. 
A dataset is the lowest level resource that supports access controls in BigQuery.

if you grant the bigquery.dataOwner Cloud IAM role to a user on a specific dataset, that user can create, update, and delete tables and views in the dataset.

to assign or update dataset access controls,permissions:

    bigquery.dataOwner
    bigquery.admin


to update dataset properties
permissions:

    bigquery.dataOwner
    bigquery.admin

You can set a default table expiration time at the dataset level, 
Sor you can set a table's expiration time when the table is created.

You can set a default partition expiration time at the dataset level that affects all newly created partitioned tables, 
or you can set a partition expiration time for individual tables when the partitioned tables are created.

Deleting datasets

permissions:
    bigquery.dataOwner
    bigquery.admin

In a single region, data is stored only in the region. 
There is no Google Cloud–provided backup or replication to another region. 

A multi-region is a large geographic area, that contains two or more geographic places. I
n a multi-region, data is stored in a single region but is backed up in a geographically-separated region to provide resilience to a regional disaster. 
The recovery and failover process is managed by BigQuery.