BigQuery supports two types of queries:

    Interactive queries
    Batch queries

By default, BigQuery runs interactive queries, which means that the query is executed as soon as possible.

BigQuery queues each batch <query> on your behalf and starts the query as soon as <idle resources> are available, usually within a few minutes.


+ Query jobs

Jobs are actions that BigQuery runs on your behalf to 
    	load
	export
	query
	copy 
data. 

jobs can potentially take a long time to complete
they execute asynchronously

+ Pricing:

Query pricing refers to the cost of running your 
	SQL commands 
	user-defined

BigQuery charges for queries by using one metric: 
	the NUMBER OF BYTES processed

whether the data is stored in BigQuery or in an external data source.


The first 1 TB of data processed per month is free of charge

Beyond your first 1 TB of data processed in a month, you are charged according to the On-demand pricing model.

Query results are always saved to either a temporary or permanent table.

batch queries: If BigQuery hasn't started the query within 24 hours, BigQuery changes the job priority to interactive.

+ dry run

When you run a query in the CLI, you can use the 

	--dry_run flag 

to estimate the number of bytes read by the query.
You can use the estimate returned by the dry run to calculate query costs in the pricing calculator.
You are not charged for performing the dry run.

+ Temporary and permanent tables

Tempory
	A temporary table is a randomly named table saved in a special dataset. 
	Temporary tables are used to cache query results. 
	A temporary table has a lifetime of approximately 24 hours. 
	Temporary tables are not available for sharing. 
	You are not charged for storing temporary tables.

Permanent
	A permanent table can be a new or existing table in any dataset to which you have access. 
	If you write query results to a new table, you are charged for storing the data.

Destination table write preference section, choose one of the following:

    Write if empty — Writes the query results to the table only if the table is empty.
    Append to table — Appends the query results to an existing table.
    Overwrite table — Overwrites an existing table with the same name using the query results

+ Downloading and saving

After you run a SQL query, you can download/save the results to 
	a file on your local machine, 
	Google Drive or Google Sheets, 
	a permanent table in BigQuery.

You can download query results locally only in CSV or newline-delimited JSON format.

You cannot download query results containing nested and repeated data in CSV format.

To specify a named parameter, use the 
	@ character 
followed by an identifier, such as 
	@param_name.

Queries that are saved or shared contain only the query itself, which means that:

    A shared query provides the query text only. You still need to have appropriate access to query the data. 
    One advantage of saving only the query text is that you can share a query that is incomplete, 
    even if it isn't a valid query, and use it as a template that other users can complete or customize.

    The only query option retained by a saved query is the "SQL Version", 
    which governs whether the query uses legacy SQL or standard SQL.
