+Unbounded PCollections

or unbounded collections, represent data in streaming pipelines. 
An unbounded collection contains data from a continuously updating data source such as Pub/Sub.

+ Windows and windowing functions

Windowing functions divide unbounded collections into logical components, or windows. 
Windowing functions group unbounded collections by the timestamps of the individual elements. 
Each window contains a finite number of elements.

+ Tumbling windows

A tumbling window represents a consistent, <<<disjoint>>> time interval in the data stream.

For example, if you set to a 30-second tumbling window, the elements with timestamp values [0:00:00-0:00:30) are in the first window. 
Elements with timestamp values [0:00:30-0:01:00) are in the second window.

+ Hopping windows

A hopping window represents a consistent time interval in the data stream. Hopping windows can overlap, whereas tumbling windows are disjoint.

For example, a hopping window can start every ten seconds and capture one minute of data and the window. The frequency with which hopping windows begin is called the period. This example has a one-minute window and ten-second period.

+ Session windows

A session window contains elements within a gap duration of another element. The gap duration is an interval between new data in a data stream. If data arrives after the gap duration, the data is assigned to a new window.

For example, session windows can divide a data stream representing user mouse activity. This data stream might have long periods of idle time interspersed with many clicks. A session window can contain the data generated by the clicks.

+ Watermarks

A watermark is a threshold that indicates when Dataflow expects all of the data in a window to have arrived. If new data arrives with a timestamp that's in the window but older than the watermark, the data is considered late data.

Dataflow tracks watermarks because of the following:

    Data is not guaranteed to arrive in time order or at predictable intervals.
    Data events are not guaranteed to appear in pipelines in the same order that they were generated.

+ Triggers

Triggers determine when to emit aggregated results as data arrives. By default, results are emitted when the watermark passes the end of the window.